# ScrumGui.de

It occurred to me, based on Kurt Nielsen's work on the need for constitutionally based organizations, that any firm that seeks to implement #Agile, perhaps via #Scrum - or some other mechanism, that there needs to be a "Guide." Call it a charter, a code, a compact, a constitution; it's what an organization needs to lean on, because it is of them. In other words, organizations must lean on themselves to undertake the necessary work to fundamentally operate in a different manner. Not because Agile or Scrum or some other "Thing" is the "In thing to be." Rather, because the values upon whatever is adopted is a worthwhile mandate. It's necessary to codify and memorialize those mandates from the beginning. #Responsibility and #Accountability demand it. You cannot know where you're vector if you don't know your starting point. Is your vector compatible with your destination?

Therefore, it seems to me the idea that any firm that seeks to implement Agile by way of Scrum,  the firm should construct its own Guide,  consistent with A: the Agile Values, B: consistent with Scrum/Lean/? Values , and C: assuming the foregoing is compatible, also consistent with firm values. C is the third rail of it all. This is the one that tends to get stuffed under the rug, maybe to be sorted later. But never is...

What any firm will need is a good guide and coach to help draft the document that will serve as a founding document that whenever there are questions that cant be resolved, it's the document and its related notes you go to. That's your real Scrum Guide. While there must be some commonality around some basics.. , there's much a firm can do  and still be consistent with underlying values such that a real benefit can be realized. Between a good coach, some sound process, coupled with experience and judgement, and above all, confront the truth and be accountable; you can have the kind of organization you seek. Who that coach is, that's up to you. But at the very least, there can be some templates, with necessary annotations, field notes, etc - that perhaps firms can just use. They can be open, but they'll need to be curated. But the same goes for any document. 

Good Agile & Scrum are essentially exercises in being a good citizen. That applies whether you are receiving or sending the message. You can't purchase that. No tool can give you that. But what you can get is the means - without the paywall, without certs, or training run down your throat. You can learn it by doing it..with the help of people not trying to sell you snake oil.

As far as I'm concerned, from this day forward, Scrum is just a catch-all phrase for Agile practice. Same too with Lean. What these things actually will be will be determined by implementation. What Scrum was... I think that's long gone. But the Rugby metaphor applies. 

There needs to be a better "User Interface" to Scrum. And part of getting there is cracking the id.. the ego.. to be open. #staytuned.
